# Brain-Tumor-Detection-Using-Image-processing
Current technological support is undoubtedly beneficial for various fields of life, not least in medical area that develops magnetic image resonance technology, namely MRI. MRI produces high relation image of different internal organs of the human body in the form of the brain, tissues, and so on. Various internal organs of the physical body are detected to detect the presence of disease. One among the conditions that can be identified by MRI images is a brain tumor. Within the medical world, the detection of brain tumor is still done manually by doctors and radiologists. This situation resulted in the reading of MRI images being difficult task even though performed by medical experts because relying on human visual vision alone was deemed insufficient to detect quickly and accurately from the MRI images. And usually in reading MRI images by doctors and radiologists requires at least 1 to 2 weeks before the results are given to the patients. Besides the challenge that exists is the complexity of the structure of the human brain so that to detect the brain tumors manually is very vulnerable or delicate because there could be a brain tumor that blends with the patient’s healthy brain tissue.                                                                                                       However, with the development of digital image processing or image processing, it is possible to be able to help doctors and radiologists to read MRI images faster in the detection of brain tumors. Image processing may be a technique or a method of processing digital images with specific objectives that can be in the form of image improvements and image quality improvements and object in the picture that can be processed as needed. during this case, MRI image processing to detect the brain tumors are often further processed with various techniques or methods of image processing to obtain essential data or information related to detection of brain tumors and then their classification. Understanding brain tumors themselves are an uncontrolled division of brain cells. They will be formed from group of abnormal cells that are in brain, where the brain tumor itself can be divided into two, namely benign and malignant brain tumors. The varied type of brain tumors that can be detected using MRI are metastasis and bronchogenic carcinoma tumors, glioblastomas, and sarcomas. Perfect MRI images and automatic classification are essential for medical analysis and interpretation of brain disorders.The most common brain disorder that include brain tumors, for that through reading MRI images, can diagnose brain tumors more quickly and can provide appropriate and quick medical treatments of patients in need.
The MRI image processing usually displays healthy tissues, tumor tissue, blood vessels, and background elements in the image, which can later be further processed using various techniques or methods to read by doctors and radiologists. The purpose of this study is to discuss or summarizes the different image processing techniques or methods available for how to detect brain tumors in MRI images because in the medical world today is highly dependent on medical imaging technology and medical images.   
